README.md, before:

# Quote Keeper ✅

A small, easy-to-implement project to store, list and retrieve favorite quotes via a simple REST API and a tiny frontend.

## Problem
Many people save memorable quotes in multiple places. This project provides a simple, testable service to store and retrieve quotes with author and optional tags.

## Features
- Create, read, delete quotes
- List quotes and search by tag or author
- Get a random quote
- Minimal frontend (HTML + JS) for quick interaction

## Tech stack
- Backend: FastAPI (Python)
- DB: SQLite (file-based for easy local dev)
- Frontend: plain HTML/JS
- Tests: pytest (backend), jest/jsdom (frontend)
- Containerization: Docker
- CI: GitHub Actions (run tests)

## Acceptance mapping (course criteria)
- Problem description: Covered in this README (criteria 1)
- AI system dev: Not required for this simple closed project, doc will say how to add AI agent later (criteria 2)
- Technologies & architecture: Documented above (criteria 3)
- Front-end implementation: Minimal functional frontend provided; tests included (criteria 4)
- API contract: `openapi.yaml` provided (criteria 5)
- Back-end implementation: FastAPI app follows the OpenAPI contract and includes tests (criteria 6)
- Database integration: SQLite is used and documented (criteria 7)
- Containerization: Dockerfile and docker-compose included (criteria 8)
- Integration testing: Backend tests cover key workflows (criteria 9)
- Deployment: Docker image can be built locally; instructions provided (criteria 10)
- CI/CD pipeline: GitHub Actions workflow runs tests (criteria 11)
- Reproducibility: All instructions to run and test locally are included below (criteria 12)

---

## Quickstart (local)
1. Backend virtual env & deps:

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r backend/requirements.txt
```

2. Run server:

```bash
cd backend
uvicorn app.main:app --reload --port 8000
```

3. Open the frontend:
Open `frontend/index.html` in your browser and point it to `http://localhost:8000` (or serve it with a small static server).

4. Run backend tests:

```bash
cd backend
pytest
```

5. Run frontend tests:

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm test
```

---

## Files of interest
- `backend/app/` — FastAPI app and models
- `openapi.yaml` — API contract
- `frontend/` — static frontend
- `AGENTS.md` — instructions for coding agents focused on this project

---

If you'd like, I can now implement the backend and tests.

Commit message:

Docs: add CI badge and CI/local test instructions

README.md, after:

# Quote Keeper ✅

[![CI](https://github.com/am-skillup/quote-keeper/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/am-skillup/quote-keeper/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

A small, easy-to-implement project to store, list and retrieve favorite quotes via a simple REST API and a tiny frontend.

## Problem
Many people save memorable quotes in multiple places. This project provides a simple, testable service to store and retrieve quotes with author and optional tags.

## Features
- Create, read, delete quotes
- List quotes and search by tag or author
- Get a random quote
- Minimal frontend (HTML + JS) for quick interaction

## Tech stack
- Backend: FastAPI (Python)
- DB: SQLite (file-based for easy local dev)
- Frontend: plain HTML/JS
- Tests: pytest (backend), jest/jsdom (frontend)
- Containerization: Docker
- CI: GitHub Actions (run tests)

## Acceptance mapping (course criteria)
- Problem description: Covered in this README (criteria 1)
- AI system dev: Not required for this simple closed project, doc will say how to add AI agent later (criteria 2)
- Technologies & architecture: Documented above (criteria 3)
- Front-end implementation: Minimal functional frontend provided; tests included (criteria 4)
- API contract: `openapi.yaml` provided (criteria 5)
- Back-end implementation: FastAPI app follows the OpenAPI contract and includes tests (criteria 6)
- Database integration: SQLite is used and documented (criteria 7)
- Containerization: Dockerfile and docker-compose included (criteria 8)
- Integration testing: Backend tests cover key workflows (criteria 9)
- Deployment: Docker image can be built locally; instructions provided (criteria 10)
- CI/CD pipeline: GitHub Actions workflow runs tests (criteria 11)
- Reproducibility: All instructions to run and test locally are included below (criteria 12)

---

## Quickstart (local)
1. Backend virtual env & deps:

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r backend/requirements.txt
```

2. Run server:

```bash
cd backend
uvicorn app.main:app --reload --port 8000
```

3. Open the frontend:
Open `frontend/index.html` in your browser and point it to `http://localhost:8000` (or serve it with a small static server).

4. Run backend tests:

```bash
cd backend
pytest
```

5. Run frontend tests (requires Node.js, recommended >= 18):

```bash
cd frontend
npm ci
npm test
```

---

## Continuous Integration

- This repository uses GitHub Actions to run the test suite on every push and pull request. The CI workflow runs backend tests (pytest) and frontend tests (Jest).
- The CI status badge is shown at the top of this README and links to the workflow runs.
- If you need to reproduce the CI environment locally, run the backend and frontend test commands above. If frontend tests fail locally, ensure Node and npm are installed and match the CI Node version (20).

---

## Files of interest
- `backend/app/` — FastAPI app and models
- `openapi.yaml` — API contract
- `frontend/` — static frontend
- `AGENTS.md` — instructions for coding agents focused on this project

---

If you'd like, I can now implement the backend and tests.
